sessions are mainly used to make the server remember the client
when ever a client requests the server , the server responds back to user and this request is
known as http request . 
In an http request once the server responds to client , the client and server will forget each
other , hence the client wants to relogin again with his credentials when he want to relogin within
short time.
Hence we implement the session concept where the serrver will be able to remember the user who have 
logged in previously within short time . 
Working :
When ever the user requests the server then the server creates a session and responds back to the 
user with a cookie .
Hence when the same user requests the server within The maxAge property , the cookie present 
with the client  is compared with the session id at the server side , if its same then the 
server again responds back with a new cookie.
This process is continues;
And once the user clicks on logout button then the corresponding cookie associated with the client
is destroyed , hence the user needs to relogin again . 

Note these cookies will be available in the application tab in console . 


inorder to use sessions in express , we need to use npm install express-session
it has the middleware to handle express sessions.
Before express-session version 1.5.0 we need to use an addittional module known as 
cookieparser (npm install cookieparser) and then define the middleware for the cookieparser

But for later versions we need not use this  cookieparser. 
we can unistall usign (npm unistall cookie-parser)

While defining a session we use a secret property which is mainly used to create a session-id
and cookie .

A session secret is a key used for encrypting cookies

A data encryption algorithm uses a (secret) key to convert a message into a ciphertext — that is, a
 scrambled, unreadable version of the message. One can recover the original message from the
 ciphertext by using a decryption key. In a symmetric encryption algorithm, both the encryption
 and decryption keys are the same.

 To scramble the message we use this secret parameter.


below is the link shows the picture of how server assigns a cookie to the client.
https://www.cloudflare.com/resources/images/slt3lc6tev37/V9RAG8z5jvFu1c0FUyE5A/5a686114c92664bccef84c32a37a09f3/what_is_a_session_key.png



Procedure to implement concept of sessions :

for reference refer onlineshoppingapp

install express-session node module.
Create an object having the info about the session:
    var sessionConfig = {
        secret : process.env.MY_SECRET,
        cookie : {maxAge : 60000}
    }
    In this secret is the key using which the data is encrypted . 
    It is prseent in .env file (check .env file in onlineshoppingapp for reference)
    maxAge(In milli secconds) indicates the maximum age till which the user is going to be loggeed in.
    After that when user rquests the server then automatically it will ask the user to give
    his credentials again.

    Use a middle ware app.use(session(sessionConfig));

    Create a webservice for geting the login status of user .
    In case if login status is true directly redenr him on to the same page even he refreshes
    the page 
    Once the user clicks on logout destroy the session 
    using destroy.

    In this when ever a client want to request the server , the client gets authenticated and then  
    the server responds back with the data along  with the sessionId to client ,
    Later if the user again comes and requests sime other webservice the server again needs to 
    authenticate the same user , Inorder to avaoid the authentication of samae user again and 
    again within a specific time known as maxAge , we use sessions concept.
    In this intially once the user gots authenticated the server provides him the token 
    or session Id , hence when ever the user again requests the server to provide the webservice
    the server will not authenticate him again rather it checks whether the user is having 
    any token or not , if yes it direcctly allows userss to requests else it again authenticates the 
    user .


    Note :
    Theier are two types of architectures present : SOAP,REST
    SOAP (service oriented architecture protocal) , This protocol was used in olden days,
    where when ever the user gets authenticated , all the other users neeeds to wait to send
    the request to the server .

    REST :
    This sessions concept is REST (representational state transfer) which is capable of
    handling multiple requests at a time , it need not make the other users wait for completing a 
    work.